[IMP] marketing automation: updated target_audience doc (#5120)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/marketing_automation/getting_started/target_audience.rst

=======================
Target audience filters
=======================

Marketing campaigns that are sent to the *right* audience is paramount when trying to grow a
business.

The Odoo *Marketing Automation* application helps marketers to do just that by providing detailed

> target audience filtering tools, which can be as simple (or as complex) as necessary, to reach the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
target audience filtering tools, which can be as simple or as complex as necessary, to reach the
```

:doc:`marketing automation campaigns documentation <first_campaign>`.

First, it should be noted that, if the :guilabel:`Filter` field is left alone, the field reads:
:guilabel:`Match **all records**`. That means Odoo uses the models specified in the
:guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields to determine who the campaign recipients
will be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as :guilabel:`record(s)`.

If a detailed campaign audience filter is desired, click :guilabel:`Add condition` to reveal three
configurable filter rule fields in an equation-like format.

.. note::
   When target filter rules are created, the option to match records with :guilabel:`all` or
   :guilabel:`any` of the rules configured in the :guilabel:`Filter` field becomes available.

   To choose either of those options, click the default :guilabel:`all` from the middle of the
   sentence, ":guilabel:`Match records with **all** of the following rules:`". Then, select the
   desired option. This option can be changed/modified at any time.

Clicking the first field of that equation-like format reveals a mini pop-up window containing all
the options to choose from.

> Some options in the various drop-down menus of the rule equation fields that have an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some options in the various drop-down menus of the rule equation fields have an
```

:guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside them. The :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon means that particular filter
has more refined parameters *within* it that can be customized.

.. image:: target_audience/marketing-filters.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The drop-down filter menu in the Marketing Automation application.

When those are clicked, a different page of the same pop-up window appears, in which futher, more

> detailed configurations (based on that initial rule field option) can be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detailed configurations based on the initial rule field option can be made.
```

already been won.

To do that, click the empty :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field to reveal a drop-down menu, and
select :guilabel:`Search More...` to reveal a :guilabel:`Search: Unicity based on` pop-up window.

In that :guilabel:`Search: Unicity based on` pop-up window, search for `Is Won (crm.lead)` and
select it.

.. image:: target_audience/is-won-unicity-based-on-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to search for and select Is Won from the Unicity based on pop-up window.

Next, click :guilabel:`Add condition` in the :guilabel:`Filter` field to reveal the filter rule
equation fields. In the first rule equation field, click the default :guilabel:`Country` option to
reveal a pop-up window of various model options to choose from. On that pop-up window, scroll down
to (or search for) :guilabel:`Type`, and select it.

Keep the second portion of the filter equation on the default :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon.

Then, in the third portion of the filter rule equation, click the default :guilabel:`Lead` option to
reveal a mini drop-down menu. From that drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Opportunity`, because this

> campaign is focused on new opportunities in the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific campaign is focused on new opportunities in the pipeline.
```

focus on *only* locating opportunities that are in the :guilabel:`New` stage of the pipeline.

To do that, click the default :guilabel:`Country` in the first field of the second filter rule
equation line to reveal a pop-up window containing all the model options, scroll down to (or search
for) :guilabel:`Stage`.

Then, select the :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside :guilabel:`Stage` in the pop-up window, which
reveals a new sub-list in the same pop-up window, to add specificity to the previously selected
model.

.. image:: target_audience/arrow-icon-next-to-stage-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the arrow icon appears next to stage in filter drop-down menu on campaign form.

From this sub-list, scroll down to (or search for) :guilabel:`Stage Name`, and select it. Upon
selecting that, the pop-up window will disappear, and the first field in the second filter
equation rule reads: :guilabel:`Stage > Stage Name`.

In the second field of the second equation filter rule, the default :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon
can stay. Or, if desired, the :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon can be clicked to reveal a drop-down

> menu of options. From that drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`contains`. Again, both the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
menu of options. From that drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`contains`. Again, both the
```

> :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon and :guilabel:`contains` option work equally well in this scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon and the :guilabel:`contains` option work equally well in this scenario.
```

registration, click the :guilabel:`Unicity based on` field to reveal the drop-down menu, and select
:guilabel:`Search More...`. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Search: Unicity based on` pop-up window
containing all the possible options.

On that pop-up window, search for (or scroll to) `Email` and select it.

.. image:: target_audience/email-unicity-based-on-option.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to select email as the unicity based on option on a campaign detail from in Odoo.

Then, click :guilabel:`Add condition` in the :guilabel:`Filter` field to reveal the filter rule
equation fields. In the first rule equation field, click the default :guilabel:`Booked by` option to
reveal a pop-up window of various model options to choose from. On that pop-up window, scroll down
to (or search for) :guilabel:`Event` and select it.

.. image:: target_audience/event-filter-option-drop-down.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to select event from the filter field on a campaign detail form.

Next, click the default :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon in the second field  of the filter equation.
This reveals a drop-down menu. From this drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`contains`.

> And, in the third field of the filter equation, type in `Design` because this campaign is aimed at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the third field of the filter equation, type in `Design`, since this campaign is aimed at
```

targeting people who attended the "Design Fair."

Then, add another rule to this filter, either by clicking the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` icon to the
right of the equation, or by clicking :guilabel:`New Rule` beneath the first filter rule.

This second filter rule equation will focus on the specific type of ticket sold for the
previously-configured event, which was established in the first filter rule.

With that in mind, select the default :guilabel:`Booked by` option in the first field of the second
filter rule equation to reveal a pop-up menu. From this pop-up menu, scroll down to (or search for)

> :guilabel:`Event Ticket`. Then, click :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside :guilabel:`Event Ticket`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Event Ticket`. Then, click the :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside :guilabel:`Event Ticket`.
```

Doing so reveals another sub-list on the same pop-up menu. From this sub-list pop-up menu, scroll
down to (or search for) :guilabel:`Name`, and select it.

.. image:: target_audience/event-ticket-name-filter-option-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to select event ticket name from the filter field on a campaign detail form.

Selecting that removes the pop-up menu, and the first field of the second filter rule equation
reads: :guilabel:`Event Ticket > Name`.

In the second field of the second equation filter rule, the default :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon
can stay. Or, if desired, the :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon can be clicked to reveal a drop-down

> menu of options. From that drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`contains`. Again, both the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
menu of options. From that drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`contains`. Again, both the
```

> :guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon and :guilabel:`contains` option work equally well in this scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`🟰 (equal sign)` icon and the :guilabel:`contains` option work equally well in this scenario.
```

=======================
Target audience filters
=======================

> When trying to grow a business, it is paramount for companies to send marketing campaigns to the
> *right* audience.

Reviewer 2: Remove
```suggestion
```

> The Odoo *Marketing Automation* application helps marketers to do just that by providing detailed
> target audience filtering tools, which can be as simple or as complex as necessary, to reach the
> right customers at the right time.

Reviewer 2: Rewrite for concise facts.
```suggestion
The Odoo *Marketing Automation* application provides detailed audience targeting tools, which can be
as simple or as complex as necessary, to reach various combinations of customers in an Odoo
database.
```

Configure target filters
========================

The following is working off basic marketing automation campaign information covered in the

> :doc:`marketing automation campaigns documentation <first_campaign>`.

Reviewer 2: Would move this above **Configure target filters** and format as a **Note** admonition.

> First, it should be noted that, if the :guilabel:`Filter` field is left alone, the field reads:
> :guilabel:`Match **all records**`. That means Odoo uses the models specified in the
> :guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields to determine who the campaign recipients
> will be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as :guilabel:`record(s)`.

Reviewer 2: My suggested rewrite to be more specific and remove passive voice
```suggestion
When the :guilabel:`Filter` field is left empty (i.e. no filters are active), the targeting logic
will try to :guilabel:`Match **all records**` to the values specified in the previous
:guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Unicity based on` fields, in order to determine who the campaign
recipients will be. The number of recipients is then represented beneath as :guilabel:`# record(s)`.
```

Reviewer 2: Even with the rewrite, these sentences aren't really necessary as main body content. It's more of a "Did You Know" in how the app works but you'd almost never *not* have Filters added and only rely on **Target** and **Unicity** values.

> If a detailed campaign audience filter is desired, click :guilabel:`Add condition` to reveal three

Reviewer 2: This is phrased strangely. In most cases filters will be necessary and are not really optional. Otherwise marketers would send automatons _all_ records that match the prior models specified in the earlier fields.

Now, add a new rule to the :guilabel:`Filter` field by clicking the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` icon
to the right of the equation, or by clicking :guilabel:`New Rule` beneath the current filter rule.
Doing so reveals a fresh filter rule equation to be configured.

Remember, **new** opportunities are the target of this campaign, this second filter rule should
focus on *only* locating opportunities that are in the :guilabel:`New` stage of the pipeline.

To do that, click the default :guilabel:`Country` in the first field of the second filter rule
equation line to reveal a pop-up window containing all the model options, scroll down to (or search
for) :guilabel:`Stage`.

Then, select the :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside :guilabel:`Stage` in the pop-up window, which
reveals a new sub-list in the same pop-up window, to add specificity to the previously selected
model.

.. image:: target_audience/arrow-icon-next-to-stage-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the arrow icon appears next to stage in filter drop-down menu on campaign form.

From this sub-list, scroll down to (or search for) :guilabel:`Stage Name`, and select it. Upon

> selecting that, the pop-up window will disappear, and the first field in the second filter

Reviewer 2: early line break
